# Meeting 2019.12.3

## Video recording

[Video recording available](https://youtu.be/CyYwretwM8E)

## Attending

## Goal
* Review the [Access Policy GitHub Issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/4)
* Decide topic for next meeting

## To discuss
* Last draft of Rust GitHub Permission Policy https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/4#issuecomment-520193578
* Should we use other GitHub orgs besides rust-lang?
* Can we tighten security? (review Mozilla security team recommendations)
* who should have commit access to https://github.com/rust-lang/team repo?

### Are other orgs "deprecated"?
* rust-lang-nursery
* rust-lang-deprecated
* team specific orgs? (e.g. rust-dev-tools)
* domain specific orgs?

## Pietro
* might not want everyone to have read access to all - have some private repos (security or core)
* default is all have read access - but private repos can be created
* can people edit or hide comments in GH code reviews without write access?

## Niko
* what does reviewer role mean - should define
* need to get more specific
* collaborators - add to teams rather than add ad-hoc - should be controlled through GH teams repository
* can create ad hoc teams

## Nell
* should see if we can manage all GH teams from team repo

## Niko
* would reflect Rust Org

## XAMPP Rocky
* goal would be to automate as much as possible

* will remove line about Reviewers having Triage access to it - default to write, but can use Triage if more appropriate

## Security

* should start enforcing admins have a separate GH account for administration

## Niko
* How will we make this happen?
* Do we think there might be some teams that should always have access to all repos? i.e. Infra admins group - Yes
* Triage working group? - likely do not need write access across all orgs
* Rust high-five bot - needs access

## Should we use other github orgs?
* strongly prefer rust-lang
* might need separate org for compiler CI 

## Enforcing 2FA
* Yes for all rust-lang repos

## Do we need rust-lang-deprecated repo?
* we do merge some patches for things in it
* if they are being maintained - should they be in rust-lang? (maybe a label saying they are deprecated)

## What team-specific orgs do we have?
* dev-tools
* community - looks like it could be moved into rust-lang org
* ok with domain working groups having own GH orgs? i.e. embedded wg? wg is often more exploratory - should investigate embedded - has specific org support for some tools
* should wg's initially have own repo, then can expand to own org if they wish to

## Florian
* should we require that rust-lang account have ownership access to other orgs?

## Pietro
* when we have policies - need a bot or other automation to validate compliance. Could require having bot account as owner of org.

* should make issue for compliance bot - Xampp will create issue

## Crates.io policies
* who should be owner? Separate question from GH access policies
* also discord, ci, etc.

## who should have access to rust-lang/team repo?
* should be very limited?
* we could use github code owners feature to manage access to files in teams repo (Pietro)
* would require changes to teams repo
* must be careful of single point of failure

## Action Items
* rewrite proposal based on this conversation (to be an RFC eventually)(Nell)
* compliance bot (Xampp Rocky)
* ping community re: moving to rust-lang org (Florian)
* ping dev-tools re: moving to rust-lang org (Niko)
* rust-lang-nursery org - repos audited and migrated to rust-lang org when appropriate (vgrimm will create central place to track info)
* figure out what to do if we request that a repo be moved and we get no reply - who can make decision on whether to move it? (will do once we have central place for tracking)
* ping people about synchronizing with teams repo (will do once we have central place for tracking) 
* summarize meeting for blog post (Niko)
* next meeting topic - lang team thing Niko is working on

Meeting Issue: https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/29

## At End

* Next Topic - Lang team
* Next chair - Niko
