# Governance WG meeting 2019-12-17

[Video recording](https://youtu.be/q6us8yhDDUU)

## Discussion topic: Project groups

Goal: to plan an RFC introducing project groups

## Background material

* XAMPPRocky's draft RFC [clarifying our terminology around working groups](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/draft-rfcs/working-group-terminology.md)
* My [Shepherds 3.0](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/09/11/aic-shepherds-3-0/) blog post
* The embedded working group's [shepherded projects RFC](https://github.com/rust-embedded/wg/pull/378)
* My recent blog post about [an improved pre-RFC
  process](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/12/03/aic-improving-the-pre-rfc-process/)
* [Project group repository template](https://github.com/rust-lang/project-group-template)

## Discussion agenda

* Review project group concept
* Proposal for an output from this meeting
    * outline for an RFC that defines concept of project groups
        * as distinct from working groups
    * what are their key defining features?
        * clear goal
        * shepherds
        * associated repository
        * ...?
    * how do they operate


## Minutes

* Valgrimm 
    * Additional Examples
    * Changing existing groups

* Pieces floating around
    * Defining terminology and introducing project groups ([Erin's RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/draft-rfcs/working-group-terminology.md))
    * Changing the lang team process ([Niko's RFC](https://github.com/nikomatsakis/project-staged-rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0001-shepherded-rfcs.md))
        * and maybe other teams too

* Problems putting this into practice
    * teams repository doesn't have the concept of a project group yet
        * no shepherd metadata (kind of the same as a lead)
        * no liaison metadata (team representative(s))
        * had to name the group `wg-foo`
            * would prefer `project-foo`
        * need a link to the repository

* RFC summary
    * Introduce project group concept
        * parent team or domain working group
        * shepherd
        * team liaison(s)
        * membership, threshold for it
        * repository
        * charter (initial goals)
        * dedicated discussion area (Zulip stream)
    * Process of creating a project group
        * RFC approved by parent team(s)
        * Repository is created in the rust-lang org
            * rust-lang/team repo is updated
    * Retrospective after some period of time
        * to review how this structure is working
        * to be conducted by the Governance WG
    * Integrating project groups into team workflow
        * considerations when creating a project group
            * are the shepherds/liaisons doing other things?
            * do we have enough people to do the work that will come (e.g. writing docs)?
        * how clear is the scope and goal?
        * technical criteria?
            * ok but you can "file it for later development"
            * maybe some guidelines like this from the TC39 stages?
    * Recommendation for how project groups use RFCs
        * smaller, incremental RFCs
            * already considered "best practice" a lot of the time
        * these RFCs put themselves within the greater context of the project group as a whole
            * use the future work section to identify the steps the group expects to do, as well as those that it does not (but which a future group might do)
    * Define domain working group terminology
        * parent team: core
* Goals of project groups
    * Ensure follow-through for projects as they move through phases like design, implementation, and stabilization
        * not letting feature go stale
    * Visibility into current active projects and their status
        * answer to "what is the Rust project doing"
        * show community priorities
        * example of status: roadmap for ffi-unwind
    * Build a community around a feature (or formalize the community that forms)
        * people working together
    * Ensure more documentation of the design process
        * so you can see the iterations that happened and what influenced specific decisions
        * "institutional memory"
    * Guide conversation and avoided rehashing disputes
        * enable us to document the canonical answer to why we did what, and to avoid rediscussing it
    * Separate decision to address problem from solution
        * RFC to create the project group can focus on the initial charter and whether the problem should be a priority
    * Move more conversation into repositories and away from RFC PR threads
        * RFC PR threads combine a lot of distinct things and can be hard to follow
        * when an update is done, no way to 
* Examples of where things can go wrong
    * impl Trait RFC series
        * design that occurs over years
        * sometimes goals shift or are forgotten
        * hard to figure out the overall 
    * macros 2.0 effort
* Alternatives
* Drawbacks
    * overhead in creating and maintaining these repos, documents, etc
    * need procedures to "review" the active project group and ensure they are making process, close down, etc
* Future developments
    * surrounding process for teams to help keep track of project groups
        * 
    * this rfc only 

## Next steps

* Erin to try and adapt outline above into the draft
* Next meeting: Jan 14
    * topic mildly TBD, mini-Discord meeting on the 7th to figure it out
    * should we revisit something or do follow-through?
    * can we clarify *our own goals* or discuss our charter?
