# Governance WG meeting 2020.05.07


## Discussion agenda

* Domain WG retrospective
* Moved to different topic related

## Minutes

* Topic of priorities came up
* How address big area/problem that is evergreen e.g. error handling
* see [https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213817-t-lang/topic/prioritization
and [https://hackmd.io/Czx3MwkpQeiC2_e9XI8OIw]
* May have a done, may not
* Specific type of group, or use exisitng--WG, project group? 
* Discussion of definitions
Project groups have a clear roadmap with a small set of known outputs (e.g. language features)
Domain groups have known _goals_, but these don't correspond to known _features_
Error-handling goals  would fall more in this category
However these evergreen topics may be cross-cutting
* RE domain WGs, 
"the rust org" want a domain working group to be a long lasting, cross functional group with liasons that various teams can reach out to
* If you want a WG it's up to you to convince teams that it's a cross functional thing that needs one, and the teams can convince core
* As with RFC, it's a kind of proposal you make to core team, which team may opt to pursue (or not).
* Plan to follow up with WG leads, propose definitions for working groups/project groups and then get the feedback
* Kinds of groups initial thoughts: https://hackmd.io/jHsV3MfSTVS6lEi6p6vhGg
* Sidebar: https://hackmd.io/vtE1YgufTU-q_u-NOXqW8A?view

### Action Items
* Complete draft of outreach email and send it
* Announce domain wg application closure (Niko)


### Backlog agenda items
* Pre RFC RFC
* Discussion of visibility of resources e.g. mailing list item 
[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/mozilla.dev.platform/Accuracy$20of$20the$20list$20of$20Rust$20components$20in$20and$20around$20$20$20$20$20$20$20Firefox%7Csort:date/mozilla.dev.platform/7fxrk-susEI/UsAlv5-yB]
and discussion of creating unofficial instances
[https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/122653-zulip/topic/Crate.20stream.20prefix.3F/near/196290565]
Proposed item repeated and expanded from last meeting.
* Effective discussion of contested RFCs (e.g. turbfish)
    
    
