# Governance WG meeting April 23 2020
On Zulip #wg-governance

# Agenda items

* Project Group RFC
* Pre-RFC RFC* 
* Domain WG Retrospective


## Discussion topic: Project Group RFC

*Is in Final comment Period, on track to be merged by the rfcbot

## Discussion topic: Pre-RFC RFC

* No update in meeting (although updates likely for next meeting)

## Discussion topic: Domain WG Retrospective

* Niko got some feedback from the WGs that was in this document. [https://hackmd.io/xsjzAW5-ThulwN9FlaP9NA]
* Discussion of creating a post based on this and following up on the feedback
* But there is lack of contextual clarity about how domain work relates to the Rust project in general
* Benefits of WGs to the Rust project and vice versa
* It does seem that the Rust language does evolve based on the work of the domain WGs, there is cross-pollination, e.g. the WASM/emscripten compiler targets
* Created questionnaire to be shared with Domain WG leads via email to gain clarity on this
* It may also be useful to develop a concrete, optional model for how domain wgs work, like the one already created for project groups
* Domain groups implicitly answer these questions:
- In which domains does Rust have a vested interest in building up the ecosystem and generally "succeeding" via adoption?
- If I wanted to do some work in a domain using Rust, is there an existing community I can go to for support? If I wanted to propose changes to Rust to aid with this work, is there an existing channel?


## Action items
* Val Send questionnaire to Domain WG Leads

Next meeting
* Pre RFC RFC
* Domain WG

Backlog agenda items
* On the dev-platform-request list on March 22 there was a question about the accuracy of this list
of Rust components in Firefox. [https://wiki.mozilla.org/Oxidation#Rust_Components.]
* Effective discussion of contested RFCs (e.g. turbfish)
