# Governance WG meeting 2020-04-09

## Discussion agenda
* Follow up on [the Project Group RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856)
* Pre-RFC process
* Domain WG Retrospective

## Discussion Topic: Follow up on Project Group RFC

### Background material
* https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856
* [Original definition of sub-team](https://forge.rust-lang.org/governance/index.html#subteams)

### Discussion Summary
* Lots of progress since the last meeting
* Discussed defining the role of "leads/shepherds" and "liasons"
* **Lead/Shepherd** are the same role - we settled on referring to this role as "lead". This is the person who is doing the day to day leading. They help to formulate the overall roadmap, ensure that meetings run, draft RFCs and other things. (or at least delegate those tasks). They are responsible for overall working group transparency.
* **Liason** is a team member that is sponsoring the work. They may or may be that directly involved, but they should check-in periodically and be able to represent the work in meetings. They should also look out for when this might intersect other things happening in the team that are beyond the working group itself. They are a point of contact for the group to ask questions as well. 

## Discussion Topic: Pre-RFC RFC

### Background material
* [Very rough draft/notes on RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/pull/47/files)
* [Major Change Proposal for Compiler Team](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2904)

### Discussion Summary
* **Lead** and **Liason** terms are the same for pre-RFCs and Working Groups
* Need to try with one team before trying to come up with a standard process for all teams
* Point of pre-RFC process is first, to have a way for people to get help in drafting RFCs, and to lighten that load. I've heard from plenty of folks that the process as it exists is kind of scary, and that it encourages you to (e.g.) open a "fully fledged" RFC that might, indeed, just not be something people are all that interested in at all.
* Second, to have a more focused set of "open PRs" against the RFC repo. There should only be a PR against the RFC repo once there is a liason.
* [Pre-RFC flowchart](https://hackmd.io/0aXUYmS5Q7e4XoxBzpyAbQ)

## Action Items
* Erin will continue revising the working group RFC
* Nell will write another draft of pre-RFC RFC