# Governance WG meeting 2020 JULY 9

## Discussion topic: Define goals, work done, work left to do

## Background material
* [Github access policy RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2872)
* [Big list of repositories working through](https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery)
* [Revisit the RFC Acceptance Policy](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/38)
* [Governance taxonomy](https://hackmd.io/KHGL4YVPRU6QaEKoorBhrQ)
* [RFC Acceptance Issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/38)
* [Domain working groups Issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/46)
* [Project groups RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2856-project-groups.md)

## Minutes
* Define goals
    * settle on a limited set of concepts that cover the sorts of official groups within the Rust org
    * have an accurate representation of current membership in Rust structure and team repo
    * revisit RFC process and staged development
        * Get rid of "pre-FCP"

## Action items
* Confirm definition Rust governance taxonomy
* Update charter
    * Define accomplishments
* Close applications for domain working groups
* Update to reflect removal of Docs team
* Create a process around creating and archiving teams (ideally not create, bless a team that already exists and is doing well)
* consolidate compiler-team and lang-team MCP procedures in one repo
* "team repo updated so that [Niko] can write liaison = [...] and webpage etc"
* Determine how to decide things like when to create new tier, or [policy to add new policy to compiler](https://forge.rust-lang.org/compiler/new_option.html)
* Deprecate Rust lang nursery
* XAMPPRocky make project board

## Next meeting
Continue with the taxonomy work

## Charter notes, copied from agenda file 
* The "org taxonomy"
    * Goal: To define a limited set of concepts that cover the sorts of official groups within the Rust org and their responsibilities
    * Related to domain working groups ([wg-governance#46]), as we wanted to figure out how they fit into this
    * Also related to efforts to create Staged RFCs
    * One proposal: [Hackmd](https://hackmd.io/KHGL4YVPRU6QaEKoorBhrQ), defining groups as "with a concrete goal" and teams as "long-lived, standing structures"
    * An alternative proposal, as discussed in the compiler team, is to try and define in terms of "how active" or "how you can get involved"

* Figure out what to do with Domain Working Groups ([wg-governance#46])
    * Goal: Determine our policy with respect to Domain Working Groups, especially new ones, and how they fit into our overall structure
    * Have to close down the "new application" policy -- assigned to nikomatsakis
    * This is in some sense part of the "org taxonomy" question, but an important sub-part to work through

* GitHub access policy
    * Goal: Define a uniform access policy for repositories in the rust-lang org
    * Status: Have pending [RFC #2872](https://hackmd.io/ATj1rZJaRimaIfIWfAOYfQ?edit), somewhat stalled on updates from GitHub
    * Progress: many of the main repositories, especially in compiler/lang, are using the team repo to manage access now
    * But does it have to be?

* Reflect group structure in the team repository
    * Goal: Having an accurate representation of the current membership in the Rust structure
    * Related to GitHub access policy, since GitHub teams ought to be created from the team repository
    * Related to the "org taxonomy" since that defines the nouns and concepts used in the team repository
    * Progress: audited most teams and associated working group membership
    * Progress: trying to resolve implications of removing docs team, stuck on Rust By Example

* Deprecate rust-lang-nursery
    * Goal: Stop using the rust-lang-nursery, finding a new home for all the repositories within
    * This involves kind of a lot of detailed work of tracking down people and figuring it out

* Remove pre-FCP and streamline rfcbot [wg-governance#38]
    * Goal: Eliminate the awkward FCP period we currently have
    * This involves some coding work, not too hard

* Staged RFCs
    * Goal: Revise the RFC model to incorporate staging and foster greater collaboration.
    * Progress: compiler team and lang team MCPs, though that has been done somewhat independently from this group.
    * Progress: Project group definition.

* Project group
    * Goal: Define the structure of a project group and update the team repo and webpage to reflect it
    * Landed the RFC
    * But team repo and webpage are not yet done

* Accomplishments over time
    * The team repository is much more up to date, and includes a lot more groups.
    * Many repositories are using the team repository for their access rights.
    * Many of the teams' membership is now synced automatically with GitHub through the team repository.
    * Alumni are now separate recognised at the team level.
    * Landed the Project Group RFC.
    * Have a nearly complete access policy RFC.

