# Governance WG meeting 2020.05.21


## Discussion agenda
Continue fleshing out definition of WG
Proposed:
-- Domain WG retrospective
-- Discussion of visibility of resources
-- Effective discussion of contested RFCs



## Minutes
* Domain working groups followup
-- Survey sent, Niko to post on the GitHub issues to indicate no new domain teams are planned for now.
* Proposal procedures / aka "Pre-RFC"
-- Lang team had meeting to discuss, Niko created a [draft RC] (https://hackmd.io/StXzJPw7SriuM4COL_YfEw). 
Comments on the draft best placed in [#t-lang > Design meeting: procedures] (https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/213817-t-lang/topic/Design.20meeting.3A.20procedures)
-- How can procedures and proposals process be standardized across teams? e.g. Compiler output is usually PRs whereas lang-team output is usually "we make a group and write RFCs". There are some specificities, but still of note. 
-- New elements of the approach, from now:
--- The team's repo contains the proposals and goals of the team
--- A proposal starts from motivation+problem (at least for lang)
--- Only one voice is needed for signoff, provided that person will help the proposal along
---- So, for example,
a person makes a proposal,
a liaison comes forward to help to craft an RFC or PR
The RFC or PR must still be accepted in order for the proposal to take effect.
-- Keep visibility on who in team is working on what, prevent doing too many things at once
-- After some amount of time, proposal is automatically merged into a "Draft proposals" repo, so things are kept tidy
-- Having per-team repos maybe "silos" the conversation
-- Distinction for when more open conversation is useful 
-- Could create Zulip stream but first need a charter
-- How much detail needed for proposals
-- you have to be show the "rough shape" of a solution, enough to know it is solveable
-- "Your proposal should contain at least one potential solution, but the team may require alternative proposed solutions before accepting"
-- Mention of interest: A style guide to avoid the "I" focus


### Action Items
* Update Forge to include project group summary description based on [rfc#2856] (https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856). (Val)


### Backlog agenda items
* Pre RFC RFC
* Discussion of visibility of resources e.g. mailing list item 
[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/mozilla.dev.platform/Accuracy$20of$20the$20list$20of$20Rust$20components$20in$20and$20around$20$20$20$20$20$20$20Firefox%7Csort:date/mozilla.dev.platform/7fxrk-susEI/UsAlv5-yB]
and discussion of creating unofficial instances
[https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/122653-zulip/topic/Crate.20stream.20prefix.3F/near/196290565]
Proposed item repeated and expanded from last meeting.
* Effective discussion of contested RFCs (e.g. turbfish)
    
    
