

# Governance WG meeting 2020.02.11

## Discussion topic: Confirm project groups description RFC done, Revisit Dec 3 action items, Confirm timeslot change

Goal: Progress to another item from Dec 3

## Background material

See links inline in agenda

## Discussion agenda

1. Discuss project groups description RFC - max 15 minutes unless a big issue
https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856
Decision: Determine if inactive members in scope; if not in scope, confirm RFC. 
2. Review action items from meeting of December 3 2019 https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/2019.12.03.md#action-items
3. Confirm adjustment of timeslot based on https://doodle.com/poll/rkp26q2gxyztsygg


## Minutes

### Item 1, Project Groups Description RFC: 
* Vague proposal from Niko to have an automated process to have active folks opt back in every six months
* Manishearth talks about Stack Exchange using this method regarding moderators
* However, teams across org have widely varying amounts of activity vs maintenance
    * examples lang vs clippy 
* some teams can have a period of dormancy waiting for other stuff e.g. localization team
* Recommendations for teams are nice to have
    * If in a super-active team this is a recommendation
    * NellShamrell seconds on recommendations
    * Conclusion: Niko says out of scope of current RFC
* RFC complete: NellShamrell ok, Niko, Manishearth, BatmanAOD - Yes

### Item 2, Review action items from Dec 3:

* "Rewrite proposal based on this conversation (to be an RFC eventually)(Nell)" - Github management
Nell says will be ready for next meeting

* compliance bot (Xampp Rocky) - implement a bot to check access policy Github actions to automate some things 
    * some work already done e.g. every member has 2FA, every master branch is protected for certain repos
    * not a "bot", more of a tool that you can run with a token
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/31

* project group creation bot:
    * not have to do five or six actions each time create a new project group
    * First step is checklist (https://github.com/XAMPPRocky/rfcs/blob/project-groups/text/0000-project-groups.md#steps)
    * XAMPPRocky started working on this

* ping community re: moving to rust-lang org (Florian)
* ping dev-tools re: moving to rust-lang org (Niko)
    * Manishearth: Not much there, experiments that needed a home, fine to put under Rustlang
    * Niko: Give distinctive tags or link to them, note experimental
    * Manishearth: fine to link to them, originally not completely official

* rust-lang-nursery org - repos audited and migrated to rust-lang org when appropriate (vgrimm will create central place to track info)
* figure out what to do if we request that a repo be moved and we get no reply - who can make decision on whether to move it? (will do once we have central place for tracking)
* ping people about synchronizing with teams repo (will do once we have central place for tracking)
    * Related doc: https://hackmd.io/wdJIYSUCTCWKoAfu3y8Q0w?edit
    * Niko: 31 repos still, probably just want to migrate them one by one
    * Erin: Someone needs to take the executive responsibility about the ones that no response is received
    * Manishearth: Just move and note down things that are not already owned in a document
    * Niko: Some of these are mine, but wondering whether could reach out or just archive
        * Action item: Niko will do a first pass
    * Erin: Want to put out a final crates.io release so folks know nobody is maintaining it, maintainer status

### Item 3, "Lang team thing Niko was working on"
* [Described in blog post](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/12/03/aic-improving-the-pre-rfc-process/)
* Idea was regarding
* Don't want folks to just open RFCs but create issues that lang time will periodically triage
* May not be entire project group but folks develop RFCs in conjunction with
* Formalize idea of pre-RFCs
* Make Internals thread, create an issue that points at thread will look at that and pull from there
* Someone in Lang team has taken an interest and will pursue it

### Result of Doodle poll
* New time is 19-20 CET / 1pm-2pm EST / 10-11am PST
* Move to Zulip? Move meetings to Discord?
* Niko, Erin, Manish see utility of subject line and async functionality
* Manishearth notes the barrier to entry but still the utility
* Zoom meetings on demand e.g. if have a big RFC to push through
* Consensus is for Zulip, Niko will make Zulip team

### For next time/Action items
   * Val prep blog post and minutes
   * Access policy - Nell will have something for next meeting to discuss
   * ?Pre-RFC process - determine right place to talk about this
   * Niko will do a first pass on repos that can be archived
   
Current planned agenda for February 28:
1.  Access policy - Nell will have something for next meeting to discuss
2.  Pre-RFC process - determine right place to talk about this
3.  Follow-up on moving (community, devtools, nursery) to rust-lang
