# Governance WG meeting 2020 JULY 23

## Discussion topic: [Organization taxonomy](https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/49)

## Background material
* [Rust governance structure RFC from 2015](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/1068-rust-governance.md)

## Minutes

Big picture tasks:
* Defining the the structure we want to have, codify our governance structures and rethink some of them to try and address growing pains
* Transition the existing processes

Key considerations:
* Tension between too much structure in the wrong places and lack of structure: teams (and sometimes their governance) being formalized too early and/or never enough
* Don't want to impose structures built without consultation, but rather describe the work already been done and how it progresses, as well as identify gaps
- Describe and analyze what we have and build based on that
- e.g. Niko ecently had to draw up a procedure for the compiler team "What do you do to add a new compiler option"; compiler team members have opinions and constraints but aren't that psyched to write it 
- Good approach is talking to some folks, drawing up a proposal, seeking feedback, iterating a bit
- Challenges: team being not really sure of what kind of procedures they would want
* The focus is the the type of work + duration + frequency/activity level
- Designing new things (language features, maybe website, etc)
- Maintaining existing things
- Project management
- Coordination
* Which tasks need a team, and if so how large?
* Which tasks only need a point person?
- Concept of "officers" in fixed roles, nominated for that task?
- Cut down unnecessary structure for task
- When promoted to poistion x? When already doimg
* Which unpopular tasks have are best shared for equity?
* Subgroups needed?
* When create a new team? Recognize when already exist via RFC based on current work
- But the benchmark of "ready for RFC" is unclear
- Describe the work team does before create charter


## Recently Completed Action Items
* XAMPPRocky make project board - It was created and is at https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/projects/5

 
## Running Action items (plus new items)
* Outreach to teams to analyze processes they need: nmatsakis to compiler, XAMPPRocky to libs
- Within context of outreach: Create a process around creating and archiving teams (ideally not create, bless a team that already exists and is doing well)
* Update governance charter
- "out of scope" section needs to go or be revised
- proposed update was put forward but not fit for purpose so withdrawn
* Overhaul of forge as a kind of central team wiki (clarify acceptance criteria)
* Recruit more governance committee members, e.g. at RustConf, via Inside Rust post(s)
* Confirm definition Rust governance taxonomy
* Close applications for domain working groups
* Update records (which ones?) to reflect removal of Docs team
* consolidate compiler-team and lang-team MCP procedures in one repo
* "team repo updated so that [Niko] can write liaison = [...] and webpage etc"
* Determine how to decide things like when to create new tier, or [policy to add new policy to compiler](https://forge.rust-lang.org/compiler/new_option.html)
* Deprecate Rust lang nursery

## Next meeting
* 6 and 20 August meetings cancelled (due to RustConf and other work). Probable next meeting September 3
* Async or sync work may happen in interim via Zulip


