# Very informal discussion in Discord to prepare for meeting of 2020-01-14

## Topic: Prepare agenda for next meeting

## Agenda: None

## Minutes

*XAMPPRocky updated working groups RFC based on previous meeting, this is commented version: https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/pull/32
*XAMPPRocky will merge feedback in current version of RFC submitted for this meeting, and make a new PR addressing the feedback
*Template exists for working groups, project groups can use same
*Short summary of project group RFC by nmatsakis https://hackmd.io/xfW6jj7DQXeeVeNoCW2g3g
*Project groups have a more definite reporting relationship to their parent groups than working groups
*Creation of working groups should not start with an RFC
*Old discussion of form for creation of working groups, mentioned in passing https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/enabling-the-formation-of-new-working-groups/10218
