**Note** This is just a dump of the hackmd document, and shouldn't be considered accurate.

Agenda 7 May 2020
---
- Domain WG Retrospective
- (Pre-RFC RFC paused)
 

Agenda 23 April 2020
---
- Pre-RFC RFC (@nell)
- Domain WG Retrospective
 


Agenda 9 April 2020
---
- Project Group RFC @XAMPPRocky 
- Pre-RFC RFC (@nell)
- Domain WG Retrospective
    - Go through emails for feedback (@nikomatsakis, @BatmanAoD)

Agenda 26 March 2020
---

1. Follow up on project group rfc
    - No update, hope to finish by next meeting
2. Discuss potential changes to domain WGs.
    - https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/46
    - Make retrospective
        - Collect feedback
3. discuss pre-rfc process


Agenda 12 March 2020
---
1. Pre-RFC process
2. How to manage RFC discussion
3. Plan agenda for next time
    * see Action Items in minutes from Feb 27
        * https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/2020.02.27
    * Determine which items async, which for meetings
    * Note: Presenting reporting async discussions in Official Minutes from meeting nearest in time to discussion

Minutes can be written below this line
---
- Continue discussion of project group rfc and domain WGs async until next meeting
- Coninue discussion of how Pre-RFC should work asynchronously
- Nell will write up pre-RFC process as an RFC by next meeting
- Niko will open an issue on the wg-governance repo with a draft of an outline on managing discussions on RFCs when they become unwieldy

Minutes can be written below this line
---
Was held in wg-governance Zulip.
Official minutes: 
Blog post: 



Agenda 27 February 2020
---
1.  Access policy - Nell will have something to discuss
Preliminary RFC draft for the GitHub access control policy
https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/pull/42
3.  Pre-RFC process - determine right place to talk about this
---> To next meeting or ASYNC
5.  Follow-up on moving (community, devtools, nursery) to rust-lang
---> ASYNC

Minutes can be written below this line
---
Was held in wg-governance Zulip.
Official minutes: https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/2020.02.27
Blog post: PULL REQUEST SUBMITTED, ADD HERE WHEN APPROVED

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agenda 11 February 2020
---

1. Discuss project groups description RFC - max 15 minutes unless a big issue
https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2856
Decision: Determine if inactive members in scope; if not in scope, confirm RFC. 
2. Review action items from meeting of December 3 2019 https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/2019.12.03.md#action-items
3. Confirm adjustment of timeslot based on https://doodle.com/poll/rkp26q2gxyztsygg

Minutes can be written below this line
---
Item 1: 
* Vague proposal from Niko to have an automated process to have active folks opt back in every six months
* Manishearth talks about Stack Exchange using this method regarding moderators
* However, teams across org have widely varying amounts of activity vs maintenance
    * examples lang vs clippy 
* some teams can have a period of dormancy waiting for other stuff e.g. localization team
* Recommendations for teams are nice to have
    * If in a super-active team this is a recommendation
    * NellShamrell seconds on recommendations
    * Conclusion: Niko says out of scope of current RFC
* RFC complete: NellShamrell ok, Niko, Manishearth, BatmanAOD - Yes

Item 2:

* "Rewrite proposal based on this conversation (to be an RFC eventually)(Nell)" - Github management
Nell says will be ready for next meeting

* compliance bot (Xampp Rocky) - implement a bot to check access policy Github actions to automate some things 
    * some work already done e.g. every member has 2FA, every master branch is protected for certain repos
    * not a "bot", more of a tool that you can run with a token
    * https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/issues/31

* project group creation bot:
    * not have to do five or six actions each time create a new project group
    * First step is checklist (https://github.com/XAMPPRocky/rfcs/blob/project-groups/text/0000-project-groups.md#steps)
    * XAMPPRocky started working on this


* ping community re: moving to rust-lang org (Florian)
* ping dev-tools re: moving to rust-lang org (Niko)
    * Manishearth: Not much there, experiments that needed a home, fine to put under Rustlang
    * Niko: Give distinctive tags or link to them, note experimental
    * Manishearth: fine to link to them, originally not completely official

* rust-lang-nursery org - repos audited and migrated to rust-lang org when appropriate (vgrimm will create central place to track info)
* figure out what to do if we request that a repo be moved and we get no reply - who can make decision on whether to move it? (will do once we have central place for tracking)
* ping people about synchronizing with teams repo (will do once we have central place for tracking)
    * Related doc: https://hackmd.io/wdJIYSUCTCWKoAfu3y8Q0w?edit
    * Niko: 31 repos still, probably just want to migrate them one by one
    * Erin: Someone needs to take the executive responsibility about the ones that no response is received
    * Manishearth: Just move and note down things that are not already owned in a document
    * Niko: Some of these are mine, but wondering whether could reach out or just archive
        * Action item: Niko will do a first pass
    * Erin: Want to put out a final crates.io release so folks know nobody is maintaining it, maintainer status

* "Lang team thing Niko was working on"
    * [Described in blog post](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2019/12/03/aic-improving-the-pre-rfc-process/)
    * Idea was regarding
    * Don't want folks to just open RFCs but create issues that lang time will periodically triage
    * May not be entire project group but folks develop RFCs in conjunction with
    * Formalize idea of pre-RFCs
    * Make Internals thread, create an issue that points at thread will look at that and pull from there
    * Someone in Lang team has taken an interest and will pursue it

* Result of Doodle poll
    * New time is 19-20 CET / 1pm-2pm EST / 10-11am PST, next meeting 27 February
    * Move to Zulip? Move meetings to Discord?
    * Niko, Erin, Manish see utility of subject line and async functionality
    * Manishearth notes the barrier to entry but still the utility
    * Zoom meetings on demand e.g. if have a big RFC to push through
    * Consensus is for Zulip, Niko will make Zulip team

* For next time
    * Val prep blog post and minutes
    * Access policy - Nell will have something for next meeting to discuss
    * ?Pre-RFC process - determine right place to talk about this
    * Niko will do a first pass on repos that can be archived
----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Agenda 14 January 2020
---

1. Finalize discussion project groups description RFC 
https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/project-wg-rfc-next/draft-rfcs/working-group-terminology.md
2. Review action items from meeting of December 3 2019 https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/2019.12.03.md#action-items

Note: Informal notes from last week https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/blob/master/minutes/informal-2020.01.07.md

Minutes can be written below this line
---
-Decision for specifics of working group creation is to remain with
    what was described in https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/enabling-the-formation-of-new-working-        groups/10218
-Process for future meetings for 2020 is putting agendas and notes in this HackMD and then posting         minutes to https://github.com/rust-lang/wg-governance/tree/project-wg-rfc/minutes and then the         blog post
-Add flowchart to RFC to make project lifecycle more understandable
    (note to step 1 in flowchart draft below, lang team was trying to put some structure to this --       get a copy of relevant notes?)
-Sidebar: Tension between making RFC process lighter vs not providing enough structure
    FCP slowing things down
    Process as originally envisioned was create checklist and team checks box and goes into FCP     for 10 days because ?always includes a weekend
    the box ticking was to be fast, but now people don't tick boxes for weeks or months by time get to     FCP for RFC people already have done this step
    Then FCP feels redundant
    How address problems with RFC process? Out of scope of working groups RFC
    We would prefer to centralize team procedures in one process but we are aware that RFC process         currently too heavyweight 
-Proposal of potential "Suspended" status in between Active and Archived
    Concern that discussion related to "Suspended" projects could get lost, would be more likely to be     responded to and continue if moved to Internals
    Therefore no "Suspended" status, just Archived
-Discussion of why projects end took place and included in flowchart

Group Statuses:
- Active
- Archived

Future work:
- Lighten RFC process


Workflow
1. Initial work:
    * Discuss the problem area, come up with a concrete charter and some notes on possible solutions
    * Find a liaison from the team who is excited and willing to help
    * One common way to do this:
        * Open internals thread for wider discussion
        * Ping specific folks from the relevant team
2. Obtain consensus to create project group
    * Specify liaison, proposed shepherds, etc
    * Each team might do this slightly differently:
        * could be a meeting and noted in notes
        * could be an RFC, which 
3. Create group repository, zulip/discord streams, team on github repo, etc
    * or unarchive if this is re-activating an archived group
5. Group does their work
    * This may include follow-up RFCs with final designs
6. When active work stops, group becomes "archived"
    * Archived is not a permanent/immutable state.
    * Reasons to stop:
        * nobody has time or higher priority things arose
        * some blocking issue that can't be resolved
        * don't see additional work to do on this
        * work was done to a satisfactory state
        * decided the idea wasn't so good after all
7. Create a blog post. Scope may vary but ideally it would include:
    * Overview of decisions, RFCs, and other output
    * Thoughts on how the process worked, difficulties encountered, etc.
8. Archive repository and chat channel
    * Can re-open a archived working group if:
        * have shepherd, liaison
        * have team consensus
            * if a lot of time has passed, part of this should be evaluating whether previous decisions have "bitrotted" or whether they still apply.
    * Re-open "goto step 2"

From 7 can circle back to 2


### Action Items

* Erin incorporate list into RFC
* Val create flowchart and add to RFC
* Niko open issue about lightening RFC process for future work
* Val blog post and minutes
 
 
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
TEMPLATE
Agenda DATE
---
1. First item
2. Second item

Minutes can be written below this line
---




